---
date: "2009-12-28 10:10:26-06:00"
lastmod: "2009-12-28 10:10:26-06:00"
title: "First Release of Japanese Dependency Vectors"
categories:
- Programming
- Linguistics
- Natural Language Processing
- Japanese
---
At the end of last semester I finished the first version of [Japanese Dependency Vectors (jpdv)](https://github.com/vaelen/jpdv).  I had to give up on using Clojure at the last minute because it was taking me too long to make progress and I needed to have some sort of a working system to turn in for my NLP final project.

To accomplish this I rewrote jpdv in Java.  It took me about 18 hours of solid coding, minus time for food of course.

The software can now generate both context-based and dependency-based vector spaces for Japanese text that has been pre-parsed with CaboCha. It can also generate a similarity matrix for a given vector space using the cosine similarity measurement. I still need to add a path selection function to throw out paths that are too long and a basis element selection function that determines which N basis elements to keep out of all those discovered, but I will add those to the next release. I'm thinking of writing the path selection and basis element selection functions as [Groovy](http://groovy.codehaus.org/) scripts so that they can be supplied at run time. This would allow for better customization of the system at run time for a given task.

More information can be found on the [GitHub page](https://github.com/vaelen/jpdv).

Here is an example similarity matrix generated by the current version of jpdv:

|WORD|コンピュータ|兄弟|緑|赤い|電話|青い|黒い|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|コンピュータ|1.00000|0.06506|0.07563|0.00000|0.07760|0.00000|0.00000|
|兄弟|0.06506|1.00000|0.19929|0.00000|0.14947|0.00000|0.00000|
|緑|0.07563|0.19929|0.99999|0.00000|0.19833|0.00000|0.00000|
|赤い|0.00000|0.00000|0.00000|1.00000|0.00000|0.00000|0.01352|
|電話|0.07760|0.14947|0.19833|0.00000|1.00000|0.00000|0.00000|
|青い|0.00000|0.00000|0.00000|0.00000|0.00000|1.00000|0.00000|
|黒い|0.00000|0.00000|0.00000|0.01352|0.00000|0.00000|1.00000|
